---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: The value of unstructured thought.
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-08-09
labels:
  - Management
---

I recently treated myself to a dotted notebook to use as a 'Bullet Journal'. It was my girlfriend who introduced me to the concept, and while I was skeptical, the book was cheap and the idea intriguing.

I've always struggled with self-driven routine. I have learnt that I enthusiasticaly throw myself into going to the gym, keeping a diary, going rock-climbing - but I never keep it up for longer than a few months. I've taught myself to not even bother starting, as I can save the expense and the guilt.

The concept within a bullet journal has changed all that. No longer am I beholden to the shame of returning to a diary 40 days after my last entry. There will be no blank pages as proof, and the design of the journal is such that the content is transient, momentary organizations.

So sure, I can now keep my calander a bit more organized, but the ethos that the journal starts follows through to your other pages. I don't have to start a seperate notebook if I want to do some finance calculations, or shopping lists. I'll just stick it after my previous page. Before I'd start subdividing my notebooks ad infinitum, until I sections started clashing into each other. 

The whole concept emphasizes pressureless contribution. One of the other 'spreads' I have is a monthly tracker, and this is mostly my own twist, but instead of logging exactly how much I have done and intensely pushing it, I simply put some arrows that show my improvement/slip. The rate or absolute number of gym visits doesn't matter, what matters is that I am improving, or stabilizing from before. I'm not out to get personal bests on the weights machine, I'm there to improve myself.

The blankness of the journal really allows a great degree of freedom and creativity with the book. I'm sure others find different parts of it useful, but for me that power of all-in pressure-free logging is revolutionary.